The Joe Rogan experience.
It's a very, you know, it, it's, it's a very hard path and, and you know,
one of the app Urus place for me to go in the saddest place to go,
it's the gym. When I go train to the gym,
it's the happiest place for me to go,
because I can practice the sport that I love because I love training. You know,
I love the science of fighting and it's very sad too,
because after our training, there's always some guys that come to me too,
because they seek some advice and I always give them advice regarding fighting.
But a lot of them, my advice for them would be, Hey, bro,
you know, you should hang off your, hang up your gloves and find a real job.
You know,
my guys have some of them because I've seen this movie and it's not a good
ending, my friend and I go fine. But if I tell them.
The truth.
They'll get mad at you. They get mad at me because I'll be like, oh yeah, he's,
you know what I mean? Like you're jealous, he's jealous, you know, he's,
he's arrogant and stuff, you know, but that's the thing. I tell him,
my real friends that when it's time to hang up the gloves,
I tell them the truth. I said, listen. And I said to them, and like I said,
listen, man, what's good for you now.
You know, you know, you, you know, it's a little bit like in, um, the movie, um,
uh, with, uh, Bruce Willis, you know, uh, uh, equivalent Tarantino, you know,
pulp fiction fiction. You know, if you, if you would, if you would have made it,
you would have made it before. You know, when he made that speech, you know,
it's a little bit the same thing, but it's it's, I love that monologues.
It's amazing, but it's true. A lot of people should relate to this,
but it's unfortunate. Well, the reason.
Y champions are so exceptional is because it's so hard to become a
champion. It's so rare. All the stars have to align.
You have to have mental prowess, physical prowess,
you have to have great coaching.
You have to have so many different factors have to come together.
And also fortune. I mean,
you're a guy has been through some surgeries and we all know guys who they get
injured and they can never even train again. It happens, it's unusual,
but it can happen.
And we were dealing with this,
this giant hurricane of possibilities for someone to
boom, come out of that and be a George St. Pierre,
or be a Khabib Nurmagomedov or a Jon Jones or someone who is exceptional.
It's so rare. So when someone's kid comes up to you and says,
I'm going to be the next world champion.
The possibility that the odds of failure are so they're so.
High, it's so.
High. That's the thing it's it's I believe it's.
You need to have a certain predisposition. Yeah.
I met in my life,
incredible mentors that add an huge influence on me.
They, they, they taught me like great life lessons, techniques,
and it's incredible. Like if I would not have had that,
those, those guys who influenced me,
I would never have been where I am right now. And plus on top of that, you know,
I w I got, I worked really hard and I was lucky, you know,
like the war all align, but you need all that.
The great coaching is so important too.
There's so many guys that are really talented, but they, they,
they have meet head coaches and the coaches train them the wrong way.
So they spar full blast in the gym, and then they go out and they, they lose.
And then they have their,
their coach has them sparring a couple of weeks after they get knocked out.
And that kind of, and they don't have the technical prowess,
the technical proficiency to teach a child or a kid or an athlete. Right.
You can get unlucky, you know, I believe.
Dave, the best way to improve. It's when it's playful.
I've seen so many guys, Joel, I can't say names,
but it's crazy how many guys I've seen that lived their career in the gyms
because they aspire too hard. Every aspiring for them.
It's about winning the rounds. Yeah. So life or death,
you cannot improve like this. It needs to be playful. Of course,
when you're in training camp and your fight is coming up,
you need to somehow trying to recreate that environment of
discomfort that's stress.
But when you're outside of that preparation preparation
zone, you need, you need to be playful.
And that's when you improve when it's playful, when it's like a game, you know,
because you will be more prone to try new things.
And by trying new things, you'll, you'll adapt. You'll, you'll be like, oh,
this one works. This one doesn't work.
But the one that works, I keep it in my back pocket, you know? And it,
it makes you grow. That's a problems. You know,
I've seen like very often, I see guys like sparing day, they,
they lose a lot of brain cells. It's terrible. It's terrible. And I'm well,
I'm former world champion. You know, like when I'm Sparwood with guys,
very often, they are nervous. So they become all stiff. And then when they hit,
they hit so hard. I tell them, I'm like, you don't get ready.
You don't wanna have any fight coming up soon. Like, just have fun, but relax.
I tell them, relax. And they very often, they, they relax, you know,
some will try to make, you know, so I have to answer back. I have to,
but very often they relax and, and, and, and they're surprised that it,
because it's so, so much of a NIGO testic sport, you know,
like we have this mentality that, oh, if the guy tells you to relax,
because he's scared, you know, it's so stupid, you know, but it's, that's how,
if you want to improve, you need to, it needs to be playful. And in everything,
you know, we say, are you, when I say spiring, when I,
when I'm about to spar with someone I never sparked before I that's what I do.
I tell him, I say, Hey, would you like to play a little bit?
I don't use the words. Piring cause sparring is like aggression. I tell him,
I say, Hey, would you like to play a little bit there?
And then we touched Levin and we play and, and I never go high.
I'd always start very, very slow.
And if I see that EAs D going to our, I tell them, I say,
please go Google more or more easy. And of course,
if he's getting ready for a fight, it's different. It's a different situations.
But you know, that's how it is, you know? And you need, you,
shouldn't be afraid to tell your training partner, Hey,
please like put it like slow down a notch. You know? Like,
like when you see guys trying to chew a head kick to now get shuttered or out,
you know, in boxing, sparring, it's different because we, we have big gloves,
big head gear, you know, they can go hard. I mean, even if it's not good,
because it's repeatedly blows repetition with the blows to the head,
but in MMA with the cakes,
it's the damage is basically like a baseball bat hitting your head.
You can't do that. It's it's crazy, man. The ties of it. Right, right.
That's right. That's right. Because they have so many fights.
They have so many fights that, and also when you fight someone,
when I fight someone, it happens very often in my career.
Like when I fight someone,
you have a connection with the guy, you fight.
A lot of things happen here.
And real fighter will know that what I'm talking about,
the connection that we have,
because you look at each other and these disconnection,
you cannot see it when you watch a fight on TV. But very often,
and most of my fight, when I went to decision,
I could see the guy break, breaking, folding,
like ease,
letting me know that he doesn't fight to win anymore is fighting to not lose.
And like I said earlier, it's not up to me trying to,
trying to push the pace,
trying to finish him and increasing my risk of getting cut by a
counter punch and getting knocked out. You know,
it's up to him to take the risk, you know,
because he's losing the fight and the ID in this game,
you want to save your cell for another day. I mean, it,
it's sad to say for the family, this, this is the truth. If you win.
And that's what you're doing is good. You win, you're winning the fight.
You know, you you're going to get paid the same amount of money. Of course,
if you have a, like a highlight reels, something like that,
it could increase your pay. But, but in terms of your career,
I believe you should see your career as a marathon, not as a sprint. So you,
you kind of save yourself. And a lot of time I fought guys.
I could see in their face that, oh, he doesn't want to be there anymore.
Like I know I'm winning the fight before. Even the fight is over.
They get desperate. Of course, they're going to choose a haymaker or something,
but I know they're not going to take any risk because they they're,
they're hurt they're they lost already. They know that I'm better than them.
And that's when I know I get the fight and I know that I'm just need to be on
cruise control. I can win. If they don't like,
it's hard to finish someone who doesn't fight to win anymore. Right?
You see very often champions in MMA.
I have a very dominate, dominant carrier in the beginning. You know,
they finish a lot of their openings, but after a,
while it become it kind of peak because
all the entire UFC roster is studying you and they figure you out.
Maybe they didn't figure you out, out to beat you,
but they figure out out to kind of survive. Hang in there with you.
John Jones is a good example that everybody.
Myself, same thing, like a lot of guy Anderson Silva, the, the, the, all the,
the, the champions. That's what happened.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.